
==========================
Decalage de : 0

Qrxv dylrqv o'kdelwxgh, hq hqwudqw hq fodvvh, gh mhwhu qrv
fdvtxhwwhv sdu whuuh, dilq g'dyrlu hqvxlwh qrv pdlqv soxv oleuhv;
lo idoodlw, gèv oh vhxlo gh od sruwh, ohv odqfhu vrxv oh edqf, gh
idçrq à iudsshu frqwuh od pxudlooh hq idlvdqw ehdxfrxs gh
srxvvlèuh; f'éwdlw oà oh jhquh.

==========================
Decalage de : 1

Pqwu cxkqpu n'jcdkvwfg, gp gpvtcpv gp encuug, fg lgvgt pqu
ecuswgvvgu rct vgttg, chkp f'cxqkt gpuwkvg pqu ockpu rnwu nkdtgu;
kn hcnnckv, fèu ng ugwkn fg nc rqtvg, ngu ncpegt uqwu ng dcpe, fg
hcçqp à htcrrgt eqpvtg nc owtcknng gp hckucpv dgcweqwr fg
rqwuukètg; e'évckv nà ng igptg.

==========================
Decalage de : 2

Opvt bwjpot m'ibcjuvef, fo fousbou fo dmbttf, ef kfufs opt
dbtrvfuuft qbs ufssf, bgjo e'bwpjs fotvjuf opt nbjot qmvt mjcsft;
jm gbmmbju, eèt mf tfvjm ef mb qpsuf, mft mbodfs tpvt mf cbod, ef
gbçpo à gsbqqfs dpousf mb nvsbjmmf fo gbjtbou cfbvdpvq ef
qpvttjèsf; d'éubju mà mf hfosf.

==========================
Decalage de : 3

Nous avions l'habitude, en entrant en classe, de jeter nos
casquettes par terre, afin d'avoir ensuite nos mains plus libres;
il fallait, dès le seuil de la porte, les lancer sous le banc, de
façon à frapper contre la muraille en faisant beaucoup de
poussière; c'était là le genre.

==========================
Decalage de : 4

Mntr zuhnmr k'gzahstcd, dm dmsqzms dm bkzrrd, cd idsdq mnr
bzrptdssdr ozq sdqqd, zehm c'zunhq dmrthsd mnr lzhmr oktr khaqdr;
hk ezkkzhs, cèr kd rdthk cd kz onqsd, kdr kzmbdq rntr kd azmb, cd
ezçnm à eqzoodq bnmsqd kz ltqzhkkd dm ezhrzms adztbnto cd
ontrrhèqd; b'észhs kà kd fdmqd.

==========================
Decalage de : 5

Lmsq ytgmlq j'fyzgrsbc, cl clrpylr cl ajyqqc, bc hcrcp lmq
ayqoscrrcq nyp rcppc, ydgl b'ytmgp clqsgrc lmq kyglq njsq jgzpcq;
gj dyjjygr, bèq jc qcsgj bc jy nmprc, jcq jylacp qmsq jc zyla, bc
dyçml à dpynncp amlrpc jy kspygjjc cl dygqylr zcysamsn bc
nmsqqgèpc; a'érygr jà jc eclpc.

==========================
Decalage de : 6

Klrp xsflkp i'exyfqrab, bk bkqoxkq bk zixppb, ab gbqbo klp
zxpnrbqqbp mxo qboob, xcfk a'xslfo bkprfqb klp jxfkp mirp ifyobp;
fi cxiixfq, aèp ib pbrfi ab ix mloqb, ibp ixkzbo plrp ib yxkz, ab
cxçlk à coxmmbo zlkqob ix jroxfiib bk cxfpxkq ybxrzlrm ab
mlrppfèob; z'éqxfq ià ib dbkob.

==========================
Decalage de : 7

Jkqo wrekjo h'dwxepqza, aj ajpnwjp aj yhwooa, za fapan jko
ywomqappao lwn panna, wbej z'wrken ajoqepa jko iwejo lhqo hexnao;
eh bwhhwep, zèo ha oaqeh za hw lknpa, hao hwjyan okqo ha xwjy, za
bwçkj à bnwllan ykjpna hw iqnwehha aj bweowjp xawqykql za
lkqooeèna; y'épwep hà ha cajna.

==========================
Decalage de : 8

Ijpn vqdjin g'cvwdopyz, zi ziomvio zi xgvnnz, yz ezozm ijn
xvnlpzoozn kvm ozmmz, vadi y'vqjdm zinpdoz ijn hvdin kgpn gdwmzn;
dg avggvdo, yèn gz nzpdg yz gv kjmoz, gzn gvixzm njpn gz wvix, yz
avçji à amvkkzm xjiomz gv hpmvdggz zi avdnvio wzvpxjpk yz
kjpnndèmz; x'éovdo gà gz bzimz.

==========================
Decalage de : 9

Hiom upcihm f'buvcnoxy, yh yhnluhn yh wfummy, xy dynyl him
wumkoynnym jul nylly, uzch x'upicl yhmocny him guchm jfom fcvlym;
cf zuffucn, xèm fy myocf xy fu jilny, fym fuhwyl miom fy vuhw, xy
zuçih à zlujjyl wihnly fu golucffy yh zucmuhn vyuowioj xy
jiommcèly; w'énucn fà fy ayhly.

==========================
Decalage de : 10

Ghnl tobhgl e'atubmnwx, xg xgmktgm xg vetllx, wx cxmxk ghl
vtljnxmmxl itk mxkkx, tybg w'tohbk xglnbmx ghl ftbgl ienl ebukxl;
be yteetbm, wèl ex lxnbe wx et ihkmx, exl etgvxk lhnl ex utgv, wx
ytçhg à yktiixk vhgmkx et fnktbeex xg ytbltgm uxtnvhni wx
ihnllbèkx; v'émtbm eà ex zxgkx.

==========================
Decalage de : 11

Fgmk snagfk d'zstalmvw, wf wfljsfl wf udskkw, vw bwlwj fgk
uskimwllwk hsj lwjjw, sxaf v'sngaj wfkmalw fgk esafk hdmk datjwk;
ad xsddsal, vèk dw kwmad vw ds hgjlw, dwk dsfuwj kgmk dw tsfu, vw
xsçgf à xjshhwj ugfljw ds emjsaddw wf xsaksfl twsmugmh vw
hgmkkaèjw; u'élsal dà dw ywfjw.

==========================
Decalage de : 12

Eflj rmzfej c'yrszkluv, ve vekirek ve tcrjjv, uv avkvi efj
trjhlvkkvj gri kviiv, rwze u'rmfzi vejlzkv efj drzej gclj czsivj;
zc wrccrzk, uèj cv jvlzc uv cr gfikv, cvj cretvi jflj cv sret, uv
wrçfe à wirggvi tfekiv cr dlirzccv ve wrzjrek svrltflg uv
gfljjzèiv; t'ékrzk cà cv xveiv.

==========================
Decalage de : 13

Deki qlyedi b'xqryjktu, ud udjhqdj ud sbqiiu, tu zujuh dei
sqigkujjui fqh juhhu, qvyd t'qleyh udikyju dei cqydi fbki byrhui;
yb vqbbqyj, tèi bu iukyb tu bq fehju, bui bqdsuh ieki bu rqds, tu
vqçed à vhqffuh sedjhu bq ckhqybbu ud vqyiqdj ruqksekf tu
fekiiyèhu; s'éjqyj bà bu wudhu.

==========================
Decalage de : 14

Cdjh pkxdch a'wpqxijst, tc tcigpci tc raphht, st ytitg cdh
rphfjtiith epg itggt, puxc s'pkdxg tchjxit cdh bpxch eajh axqgth;
xa upaapxi, sèh at htjxa st ap edgit, ath apcrtg hdjh at qpcr, st
upçdc à ugpeetg rdcigt ap bjgpxaat tc upxhpci qtpjrdje st
edjhhxègt; r'éipxi aà at vtcgt.

==========================
Decalage de : 15

Bcig ojwcbg z'vopwhirs, sb sbhfobh sb qzoggs, rs xshsf bcg
qogeishhsg dof hsffs, otwb r'ojcwf sbgiwhs bcg aowbg dzig zwpfsg;
wz tozzowh, règ zs gsiwz rs zo dcfhs, zsg zobqsf gcig zs pobq, rs
toçcb à tfoddsf qcbhfs zo aifowzzs sb towgobh psoiqcid rs
dciggwèfs; q'éhowh zà zs usbfs.

==========================
Decalage de : 16

Abhf nivbaf y'unovghqr, ra ragenag ra pynffr, qr wrgre abf
pnfdhrggrf cne greer, nsva q'nibve rafhvgr abf znvaf cyhf yvoerf;
vy snyynvg, qèf yr frhvy qr yn cbegr, yrf ynapre fbhf yr onap, qr
snçba à senccre pbager yn zhenvyyr ra snvfnag ornhpbhc qr
cbhffvèer; p'égnvg yà yr traer.

==========================
Decalage de : 17

Zage mhuaze x'tmnufgpq, qz qzfdmzf qz oxmeeq, pq vqfqd zae
omecgqffqe bmd fqddq, mruz p'mhaud qzegufq zae ymuze bxge xundqe;
ux rmxxmuf, pèe xq eqgux pq xm badfq, xqe xmzoqd eage xq nmzo, pq
rmçaz à rdmbbqd oazfdq xm ygdmuxxq qz rmuemzf nqmgoagb pq
bageeuèdq; o'éfmuf xà xq sqzdq.

==========================
Decalage de : 18

Yzfd lgtzyd w'slmtefop, py pyeclye py nwlddp, op upepc yzd
nldbfpeepd alc epccp, lqty o'lgztc pydftep yzd xltyd awfd wtmcpd;
tw qlwwlte, oèd wp dpftw op wl azcep, wpd wlynpc dzfd wp mlyn, op
qlçzy à qclaapc nzyecp wl xfcltwwp py qltdlye mplfnzfa op
azfddtècp; n'éelte wà wp rpycp.

==========================
Decalage de : 19

Xyec kfsyxc v'rklsdeno, ox oxdbkxd ox mvkcco, no todob xyc
mkcaeoddoc zkb dobbo, kpsx n'kfysb oxcesdo xyc wksxc zvec vslboc;
sv pkvvksd, nèc vo coesv no vk zybdo, voc vkxmob cyec vo lkxm, no
pkçyx à pbkzzob myxdbo vk webksvvo ox pksckxd lokemyez no
zyeccsèbo; m'édksd và vo qoxbo.

==========================
Decalage de : 20

Wxdb jerxwb u'qjkrcdmn, nw nwcajwc nw lujbbn, mn sncna wxb
ljbzdnccnb yja cnaan, jorw m'jexra nwbdrcn wxb vjrwb yudb urkanb;
ru ojuujrc, mèb un bndru mn uj yxacn, unb ujwlna bxdb un kjwl, mn
ojçxw à oajyyna lxwcan uj vdajruun nw ojrbjwc knjdlxdy mn
yxdbbrèan; l'écjrc uà un pnwan.

==========================
Decalage de : 21

Vwca idqwva t'pijqbclm, mv mvbzivb mv ktiaam, lm rmbmz vwa
kiaycmbbma xiz bmzzm, inqv l'idwqz mvacqbm vwa uiqva xtca tqjzma;
qt nittiqb, lèa tm amcqt lm ti xwzbm, tma tivkmz awca tm jivk, lm
niçwv à nzixxmz kwvbzm ti ucziqttm mv niqaivb jmickwcx lm
xwcaaqèzm; k'ébiqb tà tm omvzm.

==========================
Decalage de : 22

Uvbz hcpvuz s'ohipabkl, lu luayhua lu jshzzl, kl qlaly uvz
jhzxblaalz why alyyl, hmpu k'hcvpy luzbpal uvz thpuz wsbz spiylz;
ps mhsshpa, kèz sl zlbps kl sh wvyal, slz shujly zvbz sl ihuj, kl
mhçvu à myhwwly jvuayl sh tbyhpssl lu mhpzhua ilhbjvbw kl
wvbzzpèyl; j'éahpa sà sl nluyl.

==========================
Decalage de : 23

Tuay gbouty r'nghozajk, kt ktzxgtz kt irgyyk, jk pkzkx tuy
igywakzzky vgx zkxxk, glot j'gbuox ktyaozk tuy sgoty vray rohxky;
or lgrrgoz, jèy rk ykaor jk rg vuxzk, rky rgtikx yuay rk hgti, jk
lgçut à lxgvvkx iutzxk rg saxgorrk kt lgoygtz hkgaiuav jk
vuayyoèxk; i'ézgoz rà rk mktxk.

==========================
Decalage de : 24

Stzx fantsx q'mfgnyzij, js jsywfsy js hqfxxj, ij ojyjw stx
hfxvzjyyjx ufw yjwwj, fkns i'fatnw jsxznyj stx rfnsx uqzx qngwjx;
nq kfqqfny, ièx qj xjznq ij qf utwyj, qjx qfshjw xtzx qj gfsh, ij
kfçts à kwfuujw htsywj qf rzwfnqqj js kfnxfsy gjfzhtzu ij
utzxxnèwj; h'éyfny qà qj ljswj.

==========================
Decalage de : 25

Rsyw ezmsrw p'lefmxyhi, ir irxverx ir gpewwi, hi nixiv rsw
gewuyixxiw tev xivvi, ejmr h'ezsmv irwymxi rsw qemrw tpyw pmfviw;
mp jeppemx, hèw pi wiymp hi pe tsvxi, piw pergiv wsyw pi ferg, hi
jeçsr à jvettiv gsrxvi pe qyvemppi ir jemwerx fieygsyt hi
tsywwmèvi; g'éxemx pà pi kirvi.
